this patient is being prepared to
undergo a SPECT procedure to look at
myocardial perfusion that is blood
supply to the heart muscle its usual to
scan the patient to look at the
perfusion when the heart has been
stressed and also when the heart is
rested there can be several days between
these two image acquisitions stressing
of the heart is achieved in two ways
first by a pharmaceutical which has a
similar effect on the heart to taking
exercise and also by squeezing a
dumbbell the heart needs to be monitored
carefully during this period so an ECG
is recorded this is the tip that allows
us to see what take some pictures and
see what's going on okay once the heart
has been stressed the
radiopharmaceutical is injected in this
case the pharmaceutical being used is
technetium labelled tetra Forsman
that part of the test finished down mr.
Park so I'm just going to disconnect you
from all of the machinery and then I'm
going to ask you to wait in the waiting
room because it takes this isotope up to
an hour to reach your heart and then
I'll come lect you and escort you
through for your span okay mr. parks
departments is Jeff and Jeff will be
doing this fan so I'll hand you over if
you guys lie on this bed on your back
for me when you eat at this end and you
don't have your address
all right I need you to put your arms
just above your head for me now
don't I decide yes and that one as well
in order to obtain tomographic images to
gamma cameras must be rotated around the
patient as close as possible to the
heart the cameras are now trained to
move around the patient as closely as
possible without touching him beautiful
now play the rest of it and teach this
camera hand gesture
the very thing we learn you only
the images are reconstructed from the
data using the same back projection
techniques that are used in CT scanning
they're shown as slices through the
heart in different directions with the
white part of the image corresponding to
height a cup of the radiopharmaceutical
and the blue part representing low
take-up
right that's it we're all finished now
you can relax we will be doing some
pictures of your heart when it's at rest
and that will be later I'll give you all
the details about when we're going to do
that in about ten minutes a cycle
first we'll really check the date
have a seat in the waiting room where
you were before nighty-night thank you
okay - okay - I
right here we have some processed images
and we're looking at the stress unrest
in the short axis stress unrest in the
horizontal long axis and stress and rest
in the vertical long axis and what we're
now going to do is compare isotope
distribution in the stress images and
the rest images looking for reversible
or irreversible defects
[Music]